Hi and we'll come back in this video is going to talk to you about some of the bills to in areas that
are in PIF and I'm going to create a new python file called built in exceptions.
I'm just going to give you a bit of info about some of the built in exceptions there are but also remember
you have the Python documentation gives you all of the information you need about basically everything
Python related and the built in exceptions are one of them.
So you can visit that there.
Some of the most important exceptions however are the following.
The first one is attribute error which is when you access a property of an object that does not have
that property for example class my class.
This will throw an attribute error
if we run this we get an attribute error because my class object X has no attribute my property.
It basically doesn't have my property.
However we can fix that by putting it not in the wrapper but in the init method
there we go.
And now we can run this and we don't get an error anymore because now my property is part of this object
.
It doesn't do anything it says statement seems to have no effect.
But that's not an error.
If anything would be a warning.
It just doesn't do anything but it's not not bad.
OK.
Just for the sake of getting rid of it let's print them.
Now we get five.
Another important error is the import error which is what happens when you try to import something that
for example doesn't exist such as import my awesome module.
If we run this we get an import error because that doesn't exist.
OK.
I'm going to just come in that out this code is available by the way in the lecture of A at the very
end of this section and another one is key error which is when you try to access a key of a dictionary
that has that where the key doesn't exist.
For example say we have a mind dict which use X equals 5 y equals 10.
We've got this dict and we print my dict Zed when we run this code we get a key error for the key Zad
the keys and it's not in this dictionary.
That's a key error.
Next one we have runtime error which is just a generic error which doesn't fit in any of the other categories
we have type era which is when we try to run a built in function and we give it a parameter of the correct
story of the wrong type.
For example if we try to do in a nutshell it's really not a bug int am that
we run this.
Let me come about when we run these we get a type error because he says the arguments to the function
must be a string it bytes like object or a number but not a list.
Basically what it's telling you is that you sent in the wrong type.
OK so that's what a type error it is.
We've also got a value error which is like type error when you send in something to a built in function
that is of the correct type but doesn't have a valid value.
For example in a we've seen this one before.
When we run that we get a value error because the A.
Even though it is a string and that is valid.
For example this would be valid.
We just get 5 when we run this.
So every last our 5 was printed above but nevertheless that works when we do this.
The "a" is a string which is a valid type but it is not the correct value.
So that's why it's a value error.
Then we've also got an IO error which is what happens when you tried to access files and things like
that.
For example if I need to open a file such as my file Dotty XTi for reading we've looked at this before
I run this.
It gives me well in this case it gives me a file not found error which is a more specific type of IO
era and but nevertheless that is an error.
So that's just one of these instances where they've created their own exception which subclass is IO
error and gives you a bit more information.
I would have expected IO error but instead I got more info.
I got file not found error which is nice.
I got a bit more information there with the error message.
OK so these are some of the most important errors that you're going to encounter but they are not all
.
If you want all of the errors please do visit this link there.
Dogstar Python dot org slash 3 slash library slash exceptions dot page DML.
Now this code is going to be available so you can give it a wee look and to play around with it and
just remember these errors exist.
They get reused quite often.
It's important that you realize when these errors might arise and protect yourself and your applications
against them.
OK that's everything for this video.
Just wanted to tell you a bit about the built in arrows that are in Python.
Remember there's loads more and I hope you enjoy that and learn something and I'll see you in the very
next one.